---
author: "Thøger Emil Rivera-Thorsen" 
affil: "Stockholm University" 
title: "Cover letter" 
documentclass: scrartcl 
classoption: letterpaper, 11pt, titlehead=true, DIV=16, headings=Large 
titlepage: false 
biblio-style: apj
header-includes:
- \renewcommand*{\titlepagestyle}{scrheadings}
- \usepackage{aas_macros}
- \usepackage{mathpazo}
- \usepackage{multicol}
- \usepackage{wrapfig}
- \setmonofont[Scale=1.0]{Latin Modern Mono}
- \setsansfont{Lato}
- \setmainfont{Minion Pro}
- \usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames,svgnames,html]{xcolor}
- \setkomafont{title}{\sffamily \bfseries \color[HTML]{1F78B4}}
- \setkomafont{captionlabel}{\small \bfseries \sffamily}
- \setkomafont{caption}{\footnotesize}
- \setcapindent{1em}
- \setkomafont{section}{\Large \color[HTML]{1F78B4}}
- \setkomafont{author}{\small \itshape}
- \setkomafont{pagenumber}{\large \upshape \bfseries \color[HTML]{FFFFFF}}
- \usepackage[automark]{scrpage2}
- \pagestyle{scrheadings}
- \setheadsepline{.0pt}
- \clearscrheadings
- \automark[section]{chapter}
- \ihead{\upshape \color[HTML]{999999} T. E. Rivera-Thorsen}
- \ohead{\colorbox[HTML]{1F78B4}{\color{white} \pagemark}}
- \makeatletter
- \chead{\upshape \color[HTML]{999999} \@title}
- \def\maketitle{\null}
- \makeatother
- \cfoot{}
...


Dear editor and referee; 

We thank the referee for this constructive and insightful report, which
we write below along with our comments in italics. We also resubmit the paper
with the revisions highlighted in bold face except for a few trivial
corrections.

Referee Report 
==============

The paper contains a concise but fairly complete analysis of the ISM properties
of component C in nearby starburst galaxy Haro 11, with the main aim of
explaining its Lya and LyC emission.

I could not find any major problems with the paper, except that the English
could be improved in places. Also, in light of the motivations for this study
given in the introduction, the paper should conclude with some implications or
discussions for high redshift galaxies during reionization, instead of just the
sober reporting of the numerical values of the column densities found in knot C
of Haro 11. This would make the paper far more appealing and useful to a wider
cross-section of the community.

Minor comments: 
---------------

### Section 1

-   the very first sentence is too long, with too many comma-separated parts
    that do not really go well together. Please rewrite.

    *The sentence has been rewritten.*


-   at escape fractions --> with escape fractions

    *This has been corrected twice in this paragraph*. 


-   reionization, too, but --> not clear why "too" appears here

    *"Too" has been deleted.*


-   "higher neutral gas mass" --> probably better to write "higher neutral gas
    mass (surface) density"

    *This suggestion has been implemented.*


-   suggest how these --> suggests how these

    *This has also been implemented*


-   In (Rivera-Thorsen et al., submitted to ApJ) --> remove parentheses (the
    same problem appears throughout the paper)

    *Three instances of this have been corrected*.


-   that both knot B and knot C --> note that at this point, the galaxy Haro 11
    has not even been introduced yet! It will be completely unclear to the
    reader what you are referring to here.

    *A clear oversight. I added a short, introductory paragraph about the
    galaxy.*


-   wrt. --> this abbreviation is probably not allowed

    *This has been replaced with "relative to".*


-   This component reaches as far --> not sure what is meant here: has a
    physical scale size of ~200 pc? has a distance of 200 pc?

    *Replaced "reaches" with "extends"*.


-   Recently, the galaxy --> again, Haro 11 has not been introduced yet, so it
    is not clear what "the galaxy" refers to

    *This should hopefully be clearer with the added introductory paragraph above.*


-   wrt.

    *has also here been replaced with "relative to".*


-   the ongoing merger event --> what merger event? Again, the paper lacks a
    basic description of Haro 11

    *This should again hopefully be remedied by the above mentioned
    introductory paragraph.*


-   The Lya profile in this spectrum is discussed in Verhamme et al. (2015) -->
    please write "is ALSO discussed in Verhamme et al. (2015)" (it had already
    been discussed in Heckman et al. 2011)

    *Added a mention of Heckman et al. 2011 along with Verhamme 2015 at this
    point*.

-   define the acronyms LIS and HIS

    *Added short definitions in the text*.

-   We measure...from knot C. --> this sentence is much too long and confusing.
    Please break up in at least two sentences.

    *This paragraph has now bee broken up into 3 shorter sentences. Also added
    definition of the AOD acronym.*

### Section 1.1

-   We used archival...surrounding continuum. --> It was not clear what the
    first and second part of this sentence have to do with each other. Please
    rewrite.

    *I have attempted to clarify this without going into too much detail.*


-   in blue tinting --> in blue (color) ("tinting" is a verb)

    *The word "tinting" has been removed.*


### Figure 3

-   is the distribution in the bottom panel well described by a Gaussian? If
    not, does this have impact on the results?

    *A short comment about this has been added at the end of this section.*


### Figure 5

-   AOD not defined

    *A definition as been added in the previous section.*

-   I0 --> I_0

    *This has now been corrected*


### Section 3.1

-   The picture...central cluster. --> sentence needs to be broken up, it is not
    logical.

    *This sentence has been broken up and rewritten*


-   where also a component is found --> not clear what is meant by that

    *This sentence has also been slightly rewritten and, hopefully, clarified.*


### Figure 7

-   Full line is the measured values --> indicates the measured values

    *This suggestion has been implemented*.


-   averaged, LIS line profile, smoothed --> too many commas

    *One redundant comma removed, this should hopefully make the meaning
    clearer.*


-   In fig. 1...background source. --> too many commas, rendering the meaning
    unclear.

    *The sentence has been slightly rewritten and is hopefully clearer now.*


-   w.r.t.

    *As before, this has been replaced by "relative to".*


### Section 3.2

-   same way is in [Puschnig]--> same way AS in Puschnig...

    *This has been corrected along with the use of brackets.*


-   Furthermore; --> Furthermore,

    *Has been corrected but not highlighted*.


-   the pure riddled ionization bounded scenario --> it was not clear what was
    meant by the "pure riddled scenario", this is the first time the word
    "pure" appears

    *"pure" has not been changed to "strong", along with the addition of a
    short explanation.*


-   seems consistent with what is found in the Green Pea galaxies of (Henry et
    al. 2015) --> seems consistent with what is found in Lyman Break Analogs
    and Green Pea galaxies (Heckman et al. 2011, Henry et al. 2015). --(note
    that the small subset of GP galaxies that have these kind of UV properties
    are actually Lyman Break Analogs; in fact, the Henry et al. sample contains
    objects (and COS data) from the LBA sample of Overzier et al. 2009 and
    Heckman et al. 2011).

    *This suggestion has been implemented*.


### Section 3.4

-   define AOD

    *This has been done above in sect. 1.*


### Section 3.5

-   rise --> arise

    *This has been implemented*.

### Section 3.6

-   the main star forming knot --> what is the evidence that knot C is "the
    main star forming knot" ?

    *This sentence has been rewritten to avoid suggesting that this know is
    more important than the others. Knot C is indeed, probably, slightly more
    massive than knot B, but this is not of any relevance to this work.*

-   units of HI column density missing here, and throughout the paper

    *We have added the missing units except where the densities are given as
    log N. These have not been highlighted in the newest version*


-   I suggest adding a concluding paragraph related to
    implications/interpretations for/of high redshift galaxies, tying the
    motivations given in the introduction to the conclusions of the paper.

    *A closing paragraph has been added to the conclusion, tying the present
    results to their context in galaxy evolution and reionization.*

Other changes: 
--------------

- "Lyman continuum" has throughout the paper been changed to "LyC" after the
  definition of the latter abbreviation.

- Where spelled out, it is now consistently "Lyman continuum" without a hyphen.

- Likewise, the abstract has been polished a bit to also hint at implications
  for EoR and Gal.Ev. context.

- Better references have been given for the definition of the Picket Fence
  Model.

- AOD spelled out to become Apparent Optical Depth in caption of fig. 5.

- Caption in fig. 4 has been updated to tell that the data shown is smoothed
  for clarity, but unsmoothed data are used for computations.

- Abstract has been shortened to the allowed 250 words. 
